if you guys know me you know my channel
you'll know that when I comment on a
crisis or news story the moment I try to
do so in a way that produces a video
that would still be interesting to me if
I came back and watched it myself five
years from now when those fleeting
circumstances had long been forgotten
the controversy and crisis at the moment
is that YouTube has deleted the channel
of vegan gains and in deleting his
channel they have deprived him of his
livelihood
he has been economically dependent on
YouTube for many years a dependency
created by his success
my father said very few wise things to
me when I was growing up but I remember
each and every one of them quite
distinctly was once talking to my father
I was a really little kid I was so young
at that stage that I had never watched
normal television I had never watched a
mainstream movie my parents at that age
only allowed me to watch two TV channels
that had no advertising and that played
a lot of educational programming you
know documentaries about owls in the
forest and that kind of thing and I said
to my father even though it was such a
little kid you know I had been thinking
about becoming a comedian but I've heard
about this thing called advertising like
really I'd heard about advertising on
the schoolyard children were talking
about some hilarious advertisement that
was on TV at that time they were
laughing about some jokes made in an
advertisement I said you know don't you
think that's a better way to earn a
living to do comedy to be a comedian but
to work in advertising
my father's answer was and this haunted
me for at least many months and I was a
little kid I really thought about it he
said well you know I think that
comedians have a necessary job
I think they perform an important social
service because people need to laugh and
he said I don't believe that advertising
serves a positive social purpose
he went on to say a few more things than
that if you guys watch this channel
regularly you will know my father was a
left-wing extremist even with the in
communism he was a communist extremist
he was a radical compared to other
radicals so obviously his view of this
of who is a social parasite and who is
not was extreme also but as the little
kid I then really looked around the
world and it was such a strange frame of
reference because I suddenly looked
around the world which you know at that
time still largely consists of the
schoolyard and my teacher and the
parents of my few friends the friends
I'd made at school and I started asking
myself who here is doing a job that
positively benefits society and had a
father who was really teaching me this
this was his sincere perspective he
really did think that comedians did slim
positive for society he really did think
that an actor performing Shakespeare was
doing some positive for society believed
in theater and the arts in that sense it
wasn't a kind of narrow wasn't a
narrowly utilitarian view of what you
should do to serve society nor nor a
humanitarian view or charitable view or
what-have-you
he really was not interested in getting
out in helping the poor he wasn't
probably the aspect of Richards act that
I sympathize with the most is comedy and
you guys have seen me comment recently
on the deletion of the YouTube channel
by monkey Jones monkey Jones is also
comedian and if you've been watching
this channel regularly out of my last
ten videos many of them have been comedy
really like you guys may not see it this
way but I think that veganism as a
movement is going through a very dark
period I think a lot of us need to be
able to step back and take a laugh have
a laugh at ourselves maybe reflect on
what happened in the last five years and
look ahead to the next five years and
you know I'm not saying we should only
laugh at what's happened but sure I
think there's a real need for comedy
sort of now more than ever
when veganism is at a low ebb when
veganism is at a kind of needy
okay well that haven't been said I also
do see people like Richard people like
vegan gains as partly at fault partly to
blame for why veganism is is at this
okay so I do sympathize with the role of
the comedian the role of the satirist
and the importance of comedy as a source
of social criticism reflection and even
just kind of emotional part of people's
emotional well-being put it that way and
I think that people like Richard and
even people like monkey Jones even
comedians who do things that are very
offensive and edgy or what-have-you
I think they can and do play a play an
important role and I've been tempted at
different times in my life to go back to
comedy to do stand-up comedy
- like formally prepare and rehearse
script and do it on stage and then
upload that to YouTube within the last
five years at several points I've really
seriously considered that ie I remember
discussing it with one of my professors
and I know it's unusual he was a
university professor who actually his
main career was being a comedy writer
and including live live stand-up comedy
acting and comedy that was very much his
background so I wasn't discussing it
with him
for no reason Richard eliminated himself
and you know the size and success of
your YouTube channel does not reflect
the depth of your understanding of how
YouTube works many of you were shocked
when I came on here just a few weeks ago
and I praised the website patreon but
that praise was sincere the way
censorship works within patreon is
infinitely better than the way
censorship works within YouTube or the
way censorship works within Twitter
twitter is probably the worst of these
examples in Twitter you can have your
whole account eliminated instantly just
for using the wrong verb um if you quote
a rap lyric on Twitter that can result
in your Twitter being deleted and there
is no human face-to-face process where
you can say hey look I was just quoting
rap lyric or I was just joking around
the wrong word
can result your Twitter account being
deleted forever now admittedly most
people do not earn money from their
Twitter account but still it's scary mmm
it's scary to know that's the line you
have to walk on Twitter and nobody
explains it to you nobody gives you the
list of forbidden words and they Twitter
could just pop up a warning you know if
you're gonna post something that would
violate their their code you know there
is kind of there's no seat belt with
Twitter right I have more experience
than most people I probably have more
experience than the vast majority of
successful youtubers with YouTube
threatening to delete my channel so I
know I am not remotely as successful as
Richard in terms of the size of my
audience but put it this way I have been
targeted for deletion for unfair
I've been flagged and reported and had
to face complaints to an unbelievable
stunt and if you look through the videos
in this channel you can guess to some
extent why but just one person my
ex-wife alone her efforts to get this
channel deleted it's a lot it's a lot to
deal with and the various people have
criticized they all have fans they've
all come here trying to get this channel
deleted and the process of the YouTube
is very unfair very arbitrary and
sometimes you get a notice where you
have like 48 hours to reply and there's
no explanation even what it is you're
supposed to be explaining I've faced
these kinds of hostile and reasonable
threats you know they're really kind of
the same thing no matter which heading
the runner I've faced threats from
YouTube again it's indirectly of course
this all comes from someone in the
audience flagging what you've said a for
copyright violation but again really
it's this kind of political censorship
with copyright violation being the
excuse I have been accused of racism and
hate speech and I've had to counter that
I've mentioned that in the past videos
in which I was criticizing a neo-nazi
for openly being in where I was
criticizing someone else for that people
flagged the video
as if I were in support of the views
that I was very clearly harshly
condemning and YouTube didn't care I was
still punished as if I were the one
guilty of hate speech we've had a
bizarre example that just the last week
with an isiand having one of his
channels delete a Tennesseans a
mainstream comedy youtuber but he got
his channel deleted for hate speech and
he ultimately won on appeal basically
every excuse in pretexts but including
including harassment I've had harassment
complaints made against this channel now
very briefly what YouTube will not
explain to you is that they are part of
the American tradition of jurisprudence
and in the American tradition the reason
why freedom of speech is protected the
reason for freedom of speech ultimately
is political criticism and commentary
and that's why I get away with being as
harsh as I am on YouTube so I just now I
was at the gym and I was because I heard
my girlfriend told me what was at the
gym that Richard got deleted I was going
through my past criticisms of freely and
asking myself did I ever really say
anything harsh enough that I would get
my channel deleted for it
when I was criticizing freely and you
know there are two things one listening
to it it's not that harsh it's not that
brutal but to the things I said that
were so harsh were very much in the
context of a political criticism I was
talking about vegan activism I was
talking about the political movement of
starting with the politics of what's
going on in veganism and that is your
shield with YouTube say hey look I'm
doing sling here that serves a
legitimate political purpose right and
that's that's see this is like the
positive definition of freedom speech
that's what freedom of speech is for
that's what puts you outside of the area
of harassment right so you can imagine
if I criticized Sarah Palin Sarah Palin
is an obscure now obscure American
political leader if I criticized Sarah
Palin saying that she has no talent and
she only got ahead in politics because
of her appearance that's very different
from a high school student criticizing
another high school student that
and YouTube they literally have to deal
with that just teenagers who come on and
say that you know some girl in their
math class only got an A on the math
test because she's good-looking or
something so it's it's very strange and
YouTube they're making the same mistake
Twitter makes they don't give you a
seatbelt they don't give you a warning
they don't give you clear rules the
rules are intentionally vague and a fuss
Kotori however I did discuss this with
Richard years ago when I had the threat
that my channel be deleted I got a
formal strike or even afraid of as a
series of strikes maybe just one strike
against the channel for quote-unquote
bullying and harassment in a very mild
video you can still see on this channel
against Ted car but I was criticizing
Ted car for his diet advice and for his
philosophy of Education and career what
he said about dropping at a school and
not having a career this this kind of
thing and it was very harsh I I did
criticize him very harshly
on Thurs I assume it hurt his feelings
and from my perspective that's
legitimate freedom of speech for
political reasons but I see why it was
that video not my criticism of freely
not like talking about future the vegan
movement politically it was that video
that I was punished for by YouTube
that's harassment here's the thing
Richard recently made a whole series of
comments on this channel say more than a
dozen comments that absolutely qualify
as harassment and bullying by YouTube's
definition now I did not flag them I did
not complain but they have that on file
right and I don't know maybe someone
else flagged those comments maybe
someone alerted Richard to this or maybe
he just felt ashamed a couple days after
you posted them but Richard took the
time to come back and manually click on
each one and delete each of the comments
he made here to cover his tracks if you
like well you know YouTube the comment
they'll still have a record of that if
you make a racist comment and then
delete it they still have a comment
taste over that the definition of
harassment and bullying on YouTube as
soon as you're not
engaged in legitimate political
criticism it's it's very very tight
there is no doubt that Richards channel
could be deleted just for him coming on
my channel and making vulgar insulting
bullying and harassing comments about
about my penis size that's what he was
doing right it was really immature he
was acting like high school students
acting like a twelve-year-old okay
the Richard knows this Richard knows the
rules of the games that we play here on
YouTube he knows exactly why his channel
got deleted I say this with the
awareness it's it's possible it's really
likely that YouTube will reinstate his
channel but when YouTube is looking at
his record if I know I know he said
things much much more harsh and brutal
and with threats of violence and this
kind of thing I know he said things both
verbally on camera and in writing in
YouTube comments they'll have a list of
hundreds and hundreds of comments that
count as bullying and harassment about
YouTube's definition and those comments
do not serve a legitimate political
purpose and coming back to my first
point in this video Richard it's not
funny it's not comedy
so those are two justifications for
doing what we do here on YouTube and
Richard you really messed up because you
stepped outside the balance of either
one and for that I think unfairly you
have been eliminated